# Puzzlegrounds (User Oriented Collaborative Design Spring 2014)

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MENVGSvest06In8uNvoydaMyYH0u55fgHOfJUGTWm6A/embed?start=true&loop=true&delayms=60000" frameborder="0" width="100%" height="470" allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

In the Spring of 2014, Olin's most famous design course 'User Oriented Collaborative Design' challenged my team to learn as much as we can about the puzzle community: to identify their needs, values, and opportunity spaces; to generate solutions to meet their needs; and to produce an effective proposal while concurrently iterating our solutions with members of the puzzle community.

This gave me the perfect opportunity to explore, learn from, and empathize with people I knew nothing about. We started off the semester by interviewing as many individuals in the puzzle community as we could. We talked with famous Mathemagician [Arthur Benjamin](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/08/11/arthur-benjamin-harvey-mu_n_924353.html) and visited homes and gatherings of people who collect, build, and share intriguing 3D mechanical puzzles.

From this experience, we've identified three major personas that summarize the community. We have Pragmatic Paul, a goal oriented puzzle solver who uses puzzles as a way to 'work out' the mind. For Paul, puzzles are mainly a vehicle for him to stay sharp and find new challenges. Addicted Aladdin is a more experienced individual who is curious, well connected with the community, and loves the designer as much as he loves the puzzle. Puzzles are a way for him to share moments and fun with others; as he and others struggle through the journey of the same puzzles, they are able to bond over their experience. Finally, Meta Mike is teacher and educator who has realized that puzzles are an awesome platform to engage others in fun and creative thinking. By solving puzzles, people usually have to think outside the box and try things that are not obvious. Meta Mike's biggest dream would be to spark creative thinking in his students through puzzles.

From there, we dove into heavy rounds of ideation sessions, using techniques such as brain writing to cast out over fifty ideas that address the needs of our community. We take these ideas and filter them based on impact and 'uniqueness' to pick a handful of the most useful and bold solutions. Then, we bring these solutions back to the puzzle community and garner their interests.

Narrowing down from three promising solutions, each with their own user interaction mappings and scenarios, we decided that proposing Puzzlegrounds would be the most impactful idea we can offer.

Puzzlegrounds is a service that brings together puzzle designers with playground designers, and this provides a novel opportunity for our puzzle designers to create new challenges that are in a space completely different from small mechanical puzzles. Not only does this provide our puzzle community with a new area of exploration, it allows them to directly translate their efforts and love of puzzles to the younger generation. As they construct these new puzzle playgrounds, we work with schools to give them a new set of playground infrastructure that is tailored to inspire creative thinking among kids. Finally, we set metrics within our program to see which playground items are the most effective at increasing creative thinking by doing controlled tests across multiple different schools. Then, we can bring this feedback to the designers so that they can create even better and more engaging puzzle environments.
